PANORAMA
Q U A R T E LY                      RE PO RT                       /     OCTOBER - DECEMBER 2025




 Reserva Ecológica Cofán Bermejo / Provincia de Sucumbíos, Ecuador / Photo: Fundación EcoCiencia.
      D I S PAT C H         OF      T H E     LAT EST       O N         GO L D               MI N I N G                  I MPACT S
                                        AC ROS S      TH E          AMAZO N




Amazon Mining Watch Panorama provides
critical quarterly insights into the escalating
threat of illegal gold mining across the
Amazon. Based on AI-powered detection
of mining scars anywhere in the region from
Amazon Mining Watch (AMW), a multi-
parner initiative led by Amazon Conservation,
Earth Genome, and the Pulitzer Center,
it offers a data-driven perspective on the
environmental challenges facing the world’s
largest rainforest.                                     Impact of mining activities on riparian forests in Napo province. Photo: Fundación EcoCiencia


Quarterly Panorama reports include information
on the previous 3 months for:

• Regional trends of gold-mining driven            REGIONAL TRENDS OF GOLD
  deforestation
• New incursions into protected areas              MINING-DRIVEN DEFORESTATION
  and Indigenous territories previously
  untouched by mining                              Key findings from October to December 2025:
• Cases of resurgence of mining in protected
  areas and Indigenous territories                 • Gold mining expanded in all 9 Amazonian Countries impacting
• Protected areas and Indigenous territories         6,000 hectares.
  with persistent and accelerating mining
  deforestation                                    • Brazil registered the largest recent (4th quarter) mining expansion
                                                     area (2,000 ha), followed closely by Peru (1,700 ha) and then
In this report, we present data on one (1)           Guyana (900 ha).
case of new incursion, five (5) cases of
resurgence and four (4) cases of areas with        • In the middle tier are Venezuela (600 ha), Suriname (500 ha), Bolivia
persistent and accelerating mining-related           (300 ha), Ecuador (240 ha), and French Guiana (80 ha).
deforestation.
                                                   • Colombia had the least new gold mining deforestation (10 ha),
As gold prices continue to rise, timely              but does have an emerging issue related to illegal gold mining
detection of new expansion of mining                 along the Pure River (see MAAP #228).
areas through a consistent, wall-to-wall
methodology can support a swift and
coordinated enforcement response from
authorities across borders.




   Amazon Mining Watch Panorama		                 QUARTERLY REPORT / October - December 2025                                                    2
                         NEW INCURSIONS ON PROTECTED AREAS
                              OR INDIGENOUS TERRITORIES
        This section lists areas with no mining detected since 2018 but where mining scars have been detected in the last quarter, highlighting
        totally new—and highly likely to be illegal—incursions in areas designated for conservation or Indigenous territories.
        Detection polygons for each of these cases are visible on the Amazon Mining Watch geovisor, where the full time series of mining
        expansion since 2018 can be consulted. Where available, high-resolution Planet imagery is also provided, confirming the nature of the
        activity causing deforestation.
        Under this category, only one new mining incursion was detected in the last quarter, across formally recognized Indigenous territories
        and protected areas

TERRITORIO CHARIP
(EC U A D O R )


The Territorio Charip was officially
recognized by the Government of Ecuador
in 2025. It is designated as an Indigenous
territory titled under the stewardship of
the Shuar people. Located in Sucumbíos
Province, the territory safeguards vital
lowland tropical rainforest within the
Tropical Andes–Amazon transition zone,
as well as critical headwaters that feed into
the Aguarico and Putumayo River basins.

Mining update: The territory appears to
have suffered from a small mining incursion
in the last quarter, which would mark the
first time that mining has occurred in the             Planet Panel: The high resolution Planet Scope Images (3 m),
                                                       shows the before (left) and after (right) of the new mining incursion.   Click Here to see the
area, even prior to its designation.                                                                                               interactive map




             RESURGENCE OF MINING DEFORESTATION IN
           PROTECTED AREAS AND INDIGENOUS TERRITORIES
         This section lists protected areas and Indigenous territories where new mining scars have been detected in the last quarter, and
         where no new mining scars had been detected in the past three quarters, indicating mining sites where activity had previously
         abated - possibly following enforcement operations - but has recently resurged.
         Under this category, five (5) areas were detected in the last quarter: one in Brazil, two in Ecuador and two in Guyana.


1.   PARQUE ESTADUAL IGARAPÉS DO JURUENA
(BR A Z IL )


The Igarapés do Juruena State Park
was established in 2022. The land is
designated as an Integral Protection unit
dedicated to ecosystem preservation and
scientific research with permitted public
visitation and environmental education.
Located in the state of Mato Grosso, the
park lies within the Juruena River basin
and protects a critical transition zone
between the Amazon rainforest and the
Cerrado (savanna) biomes.

Mining update: A small mining footprint
started appearing in 2018, reaching
3 hectares in 2021. No further mining
expansion had been recorded until the                  Planet Panel: The high resolution Planet Scope Images (3 m),
                                                       shows the before (left) and after (right) of the remarkable growth       Click Here to see the
last quarter, when a further 2.83 hectares             of mining activity.                                                         interactive map
of mining scars were detected.


     Amazon Mining Watch Panorama		                               QUARTERLY REPORT / October - December 2025                                            3
2.   TUNANTS INDIGENOUS TERRITORY
(EC U A D O R )


The Tunants Indigenous territory was
formally established with the issuance of
its legal land title in 2025. Designated as
a Protected Forest (Bosque y Vegetación
Protectora), it lies within the Kutukú Shaimi
Protected Forest. The territory is stewarded
by the Shuar people, who use traditional
knowledge and contemporary conservation
practices to manage their territory.

Mining update: The territory registered a
new mining scar in the last quarter, over
an area of 1.3 hectares. Less than one
hectare had previously been cleared for
mining in the territory, in 2024.               Planet Panel: The high resolution Planet Scope Images (3 m), shows the
                                                before (left) and after (right) of the remarkable growth of mining activity
                                                                                                                              Click Here to see the
                                                entering the Indigenous territory.                                               interactive map

3.   KAMARANG KENG INDIGENOUS TERRITORY
(GU YA N A )


The Kamarang Keng Indigenous territory
was formally established in 1991 and
is primarily inhabited by the Akawaio
people, located in the Upper Mazaruni
region. Classified as Titled Amerindian
Village Land, the territory is legally
recognized under Guyanese law.

Mining update: The area of mining scars
in Kamaran Keng territory grew between
2018 and 2024, but had shown signs of
abatement since, potentially indicating
abandonment of the area after an
enforcement operation. Yet, despite no
mining expansion in the first 3 quarters of
                                                                                                                              Click Here to see the
2025, almost 10 hectares of new mining                                                                                           interactive map
scars were detected in the period Oct-Dec.

4.   ARAJUNO CHICHICO RUMI INDIGENOUS TERRITORY
(EC U A D O R )


The Arajuno Chichico Rumi Indigenous
territory received formal titulation as an
Indigenous territory in 2025. The area
is an ancestral Kichwa territory that has
been associated with the Puka Rumi and
Chichico Rumi communities in the Napo
and Pastaza provinces. The territory’s legal
status is defined by the collective land
rights of the Kichwa people, which are at
various stages of formal recognition.

Mining update: Prior to its formal
recognition, the Arujuno Chichico Rumi
Territory had registered only minimal
signs of mining activity (3.36), yet the
                                                Planet Panel: The high resolution Planet Scope Images (3 m), shows
area of mining scars more than tripled in       the before (left) and after (right) of the growth of mining activity within
                                                                                                                              Click Here to see the
the last quarter of 2025.                       Indigenous territory.                                                            interactive map




     Amazon Mining Watch Panorama		                         QUARTERLY REPORT / October - December 2025                                                4
5.   ARAU INDIGENOUS TERRITORY
(GU YA N A )


The Arau Indigenous territory was
formally recognized as a Titled
Amerindian Village Land under national
law in 1991. The territory is primarily
inhabited by the Akawaio people and is
located in the Cuyuni-Mazaruni region
near the border with Venezuela.

Mining update: Mining activity in the
Arau Territory had been relatively stable
since 2021, with no expansion of the
alluvial pools detected along the border
with Venezuela. The last quarter of 2025
saw the opening of over 4 hectares of
mining scars, likely indicating a new
                                                                                                                                    Click Here to see the
incursion from Venezuelan miners into                                                                                                  interactive map
the territory.




          PROTECTED AREAS AND INDIGENOUS TERRITORIES
               WITH PERSISTENT AND ACCELERATING
                     MINING DEFORESTATION
          This section lists protected areas, Indigenous territories with persistent mining-driven deforestation that have seen notable
          expansion in the past quarter. Many areas across the Amazon continue to experience gold mining-related deforestation, however
          the following four (4) - two in Peru, one in Venezuela and one in Brazil - were selected for the persistent and accelerating
          character of this driver.



YAPACANA - PROTECTED AREA
(VE N E Z U E L A )


Yapacana National Park was established
in 1978 under Presidential Decree No.
2,980. Situated in Venezuela’s Amazonas
department, the park is centered on
the Cerro Yapacana, a sandstone tepui.
As the park holds an IUCN Category
II protected area, it enjoys protected
status while remaining open to the public
for spiritual, scientific, educational, and
recreational activities.

Mining update: Mining expansion in the
Yapacana NP seemed to have stabilized
since 2024, following enforcement
operations     from   the    Venezuelan
                                                    Planet Panel: The high resolution Planet Scope Images (3 m), shows
authorities. Although we had reported               the before (left) and after (right) of the small expansion of mining activity
                                                                                                                                    Click Here to see the
new mining on top of the Tepui in MAAP              within protected areas.                                                            interactive map
#234, mining expansion through most
of 2025 appeared stable. However, this
trend ended in the last quarter of 2025,
which registered almost 100 hectares of
new mining expansion.



     Amazon Mining Watch Panorama		                             QUARTERLY REPORT / October - December 2025                                                  5
ARIPUANÃ - INDIGENOUS TERRITORY
(BR A Z IL )


The Aripuanã Indigenous territory
gained official recognition in 1991 under
Federal Decree No. 375. Located in
the state of Mato Grosso, the territory
is primarily home to the Cinta Larga
community. The territory continues to
experience increased deforestation
pressure due to illegal logging and
mining, owing to extensive diamond
and gold reserves.

Mining update: The territory registered
an increase of almost 60 hectares of
new mining in the last quarter of 2025,
confirming the persistent expansion and
intensification of the activity throughout
the past year.




                                               Planet Panel: The high resolution Planet Scope Images (3 m), shows
                                               the before (left) and after (right) of the expansion of mining into the
                                               Indigenous territory.                                                       Click Here to see the
                                                                                                                              interactive map




TAMBOPATA - PROTECTED AREA
(PE R U )


The Tambopata National Reserve
was officially established in 2000, by
Supreme Decree No. 048-2000-AG.
The territory is classified as an IUCN
Category VI protected area, allowing for
the sustainable use of natural resources
by local communities. The reserve
safeguards critical lowland Amazonian
rainforest and is renowned for its
exceptional biodiversity, including some
of the highest recorded numbers of bird
and butterfly species in the world.

Mining update: Located on the edge of
the mining corridor that concentrates most
of the gold mining activity in the region of   Planet Panel: The high resolution Planet Scope Images (3 m), shows the
                                               before (left) and after (right) of the great expansion of mining into the   Click Here to see the
Madre de Dios, the Tambopata National          interior of the protected areas.                                               interactive map
reserve continues to see the expansion
of mining operations within its limits, with
over 200 hectares of new mining added in
the last quarter.


     Amazon Mining Watch Panorama		                        QUARTERLY REPORT / October - December 2025                                              6
TRES ISLAS - INDIGENOUS TERRITORY
(PE R U )


The Tres Islas Indigenous territory was
formally recognized in 1992, through
Resolution      R.D.     027-92-RI-DSRA-
MD, and received its official land title
in 1994. The territory is designated
as a Native Community (Comunidad
Nativa), granting collective ownership
and territorial rights to the Ese Eja and
Shipibo-Konibo peoples who have
historically inhabited the land.

Mining update: The territory registered
an increase of 50 hectares of new mining
in the last quarter of 2025, confirming
the persistent expansion of the activity.                                                         Click Here to see the
                                                                                                     interactive map




         Conclusion
         The findings of this report reveal the continuous expansion of mining-related deforestation, encroaching
         upon protected areas and Indigenous territories. The persistent and pervasive nature of this threat underscore
         the escalating crisis of illegal gold mining in the Amazon. Consistent, data-driven monitoring provided by
         Amazon Mining Watch Panorama is crucial for understanding the scope of the problem and to promote
         accountability. Amazon Mining Watch and its partners will continue to provide quarterly and yearly updates
         about trends in gold mining expansion in the Amazon, information about the presumed illegality of these
         activities and their estimated socioenvironmental impact.

         Methodology of monitoring systems

         For Amazon Mining Watch, the mine detector is an artificial neural network, which we train to discriminate
         mines from other terrain by feeding it hand-labeled examples of mines and other key features as they
         appear in Sentinel-2 satellite imagery. The network operates on square patches of data extracted from the
         Sentinel-2 L1C data product. Each pixel in the patch captures the light reflected from Earth’s surface in
         twelve bands of visible and infrared light. We average (median composite) the Sentinel data across a period
         of many months to reduce the presence of clouds, cloud shadow, and other transitory effects. During run
         time, the network assesses each patch for signs of recent mining activity, and then the region of interest
         is shifted by half a patch width for the network to make a subsequent assessment. This process proceeds
         across the entire region of interest.

         Acknowledgments
         This report was made possible by the generous support of the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation.



We are grateful to the following partners and                                                 Amazon Mining Watch is made possible
organizations who provided support for this publication:                                      thanks to the generous support of:




      Amazon Mining Watch Panorama		                       QUARTERLY REPORT / October - December 2025                     7
